Up to now when we've been inserting a new article we've been providing valid data in each of the farms
inputs.
So when we submit the farm it inserts a rijkaard into the database.
However if we leave the farm blank and don't enter anything we can still submit the farm and a rijkaard
is inserted into the database in the database.
This rijkaard has empty fields in it.
This is not what we want.
So before we insert a new record into the database we need to validate the data coming from the farm.
Let's do this here.
Once the farm has been submitted but before we build the Eskew L statement we'll start by checking that
the title isn't blank if it is.
For now let's just halt the script using that dye function and print out a message.
Now if we submit the farm with an empty title we get the message.
This isn't very user friendly though just displaying an error message like this.
Let's change it so that we redisplay the form with the error message so the user can correct the errors
as we checking more than one field.
We could potentially have more than one error message so let's create a variable to hold the error messages
and set its initial value to an empty array.
Now instead of halting the script we'll add this error message to the array to append an element to
an array.
We use this method of assigning the value to the variable name followed by empty brackets.
While we're here.
Let's also check that the content field isn't empty and add another error message to the array.
If it is for now lets just print out the array and then stop the script so we can check it's working.
Now if we submit an empty farm we get an array of errors.
If we do submit some values in the farm the errors array is empty.
So if the list of areas is empty which we can check using the empty function we can proceed with the
esky well as before.
And let's not forget to close the f block.
Like that.
Then in the x t email we can display these errors.
Well let's just dump out the whole array for now like that.
Now however when we first visit the page we get a message saying the air is variable is undefined.
This is because this variable is first defined here inside this big block which is only executed if
the form is submitted.
So if we move it outside of this block like that.
Now the error has gone although we do see an empty array and when we submit the farm we get the farm
again but this time with the error messages.
So that's changed this from simply dumping out this array to something a bit more user friendly.
First of all check if there are any errors.
Then if there are will loop around the array and display each error message and display these as an
ordered list like that.
Now when we submit an empty form we get the pharmacy displayed with the validation messages.
If we submit a form with valid data then validation passes and we can still insert some data.
Note that we could have added the required attributes to the farm inputs as we saw earlier in the next
email.
But these can be bypassed.
It's very important to always validate data on the server.
In addition to any client side validation your father may have.